[theme music]
Hey.
I know you thought
your allowance
wasn't going to get
us through this month,
but I brought dinner.
It's amazing how well you
can eat off loose change.
Wow.
Ding Dongs and Ho-Hos.
We better use the floral toilet
paper tonight for napkins.
Well, I'm sorry.
The steak button was stuck.
I'm just in a really
crappy mood right now.
I just talked to my mom, and
I had to lie to her again.
I'm just getting so sick of it.
I know what you're saying.
You don't want me here.
Yes, David, that's exactly
what I'm saying, word for word.
Thank you for listening.
Well, you don't act
like you want me here.
You're always in a bad mood.
I'm beginning to feel
like I'm in the way.
You're not in
the way, all right?
I couldn't possibly be more
thrilled that you're here
all day long, no
matter what time it is,
doing absolutely nothing.
I love that.
You know, I get in bad
moods, too, but I hold back.
This is me holding back.
If I wasn't holding back,
the better part of your face
would be under my
fingernails by now.
You know, the only reason
that I don't do anything
is because you're never
around to do it with.
Oh, I'm sorry I
have a life, David.
I'm sorry I have friends.
I'm sorry I'm not a pathetic
zombie like you are.
Well, I do not
accept your apology.
This whole living
together thing just sucks.
I'm not eating that
garbage another night.
I'm going out.
Fine!
Go!
Just let me get my jacket first.
[theme music]
[music playing]
[rock music]
[knocking at door]
Excuse me?
(YELLING) Hey!
Excuse me!
Is Mark here?
He's taking a nap!
[music shuts off]
I'm Dan Conner,
Mark's father-in-law.
Hey, [chuckles] you know,
when I was a bachelor,
I had quite the
sound system myself.
Quadraphonic, reel-to-reel.
What kind of system
do you have now?
Clock radio.
It's a nice one, got two alarms.
So how's Mark been doing
the last couple of days?
Why?
What happened?
He left his wife.
Oh, well, that's probably
why he moved in here.
My guess is you and Mark
used to study together.
Mark left his wife?
That's got to, I
don't know, suck.
Well, they've been
together quite a while,
and I can't imagine him
being too happy living here.
Whoa, whoa.
Great TV.
I didn't know there
was a game on.
I got a satellite dish.
There's always a game on.
Oh, man.
So-- so you think Mark's in
a lot of pain or something?
Well, the man hasn't
seen his wife in two days.
My guess is he's
going through hell.
You've got a refrigerator
in the living room?
That's brilliant.
You want something?
Can I get it myself?
Hey.
What are you doing here?
Uh, I thought we
should talk about Becky.
[scoffs] Forget it.
Look, Mark, I know these
problems seem huge at first,
but if you just call her.
I mean, Roseanne and I
have had plenty of fights.
I remember this one fight we had
when I wanted a satellite dish.
Yeah, we said
everything already.
Not good enough.
My daughter is hurting here.
Did she send you
down to talk to me?
No, this was my idea.
Then I've got
nothing to say to her.
Come on, Mark,
forget the pride thing.
Just come home and see Becky.
Look, Becky doesn't
want to see me, Dan.
I flunked out of trade school.
She's not thinking
about that right now!
She's been miserable for the
last two days without you.
No she hasn't.
She's hurting every
bit as bad as you are.
Two remotes?
Cool.
Look, I'm not
coming back, Dan.
Besides, I know Mrs. Conner's
real glad that I'm gone.
She's probably waiting with a
shotgun in case I come back.
Mark, please, that
thing isn't loaded.
Sorry.
[door shuts]
Oh, man.
I can't go back and
tell my wife I failed.
[sighs] You want
to order a pizza?
Number three on
the speed dial.
Excellent!
[music playing]
ROSEANNE: He's been gone
for three whole days,
and he doesn't even
call her to apologize.
Come on, Roseanne.
That kind of thing isn't
easy for a guy like Mark.
Well, he could get somebody
to dial a phone for him.
Hi, Dad.
Hey, Beck.
So, Becky, do you
want some donuts?
I got tons of 'em.
This car hit the blood
mobile, and there
were donuts everywhere.
It was-- it was just awful.
I got all kinds of it.
I got the chocolate twisty kind,
the lemon squirty kind, and
the ones that look like feet.
No.
I got half a
plain one over here.
OK.
Thanks, Dad.
Cheer up, honey.
You suck!
What?
Using my own damn
donuts against me.
What am I supposed to do?
She's hurting because
her husband is gone.
Well, if you really
want to be a good dad,
why don't you tell her how lucky
she is that that creep walked
out on her now instead
of years from now
when she's got a ton of
his creepy little kids.
I don't want to be a good dad.
I want to be a popular dad.
Hi, guys.
Is Roseanne doing any better?
- A little.
She's out of her coma now
and can understand words.
Yeah, she's doing
a little better.
I'm fine.
Dan's the one that
should feel lousy.
It's all his fault.
How is this my fault?
Because Mark is a butt head.
And girls always
marry their fathers.
You know, from talking
to Mark it didn't
sound like it was my
fault. He's afraid to come
home because of you.
Me?
[scoffs] Well, did you tell
them how stupid that was?
Did you defend me?
I was there to listen.
I think Mark has a point.
You weren't very nice to him.
- What are you talking about?
I was a total saint.
You made constant fun of
him, called him names,
put him down, hid his keys.
Once I hid his keys,
and that was a joke.
He never found them!
Well, you laughed.
I'm tired of being the bad guy.
You're not the bad guy.
She's not mad at you.
She's just mad at the world.
Well, how come she only
takes it out on me then?
Why doesn't she go get a
job at the post office?
Hey, Jackie.
Hi, Beck.
You know, Becky,
you really should eat
more than just a half a donut.
I'm fine, Mother!
A lot of good ones in here.
Thanks, Jackie.
I don't care what
the two of you say.
I don't think she's acting
like a great big spoiled brat.
[blows raspberry]
[music playing]
[knocking at door]
Come in.
Um, I'm looking
for Mark Healy.
He's out.
He'll be back in a minute.
Oh, OK.
Well, um, I'm, uh, I'm
Roseanne, Dan's wife.
I think he was over
here to play earlier.
Sure.
I'm Royal.
You can call me Roy or Al.
Well, I think I'll pick Roy.
Most chicks do.
Well, this may just be
a stab in the dark, Roy,
but I'm betting that
you're not married.
Yeah, how'd you know?
Well, because when I
was younger and single,
every single guy I dated that
didn't live at home lived here.
As a matter of fact, I think
this is Dan's old couch.
You wanna sit down?
Yeah, thanks.
Is there some place that I
could, uh, boil this first?
That's just beer.
It's got to be dry by now.
You want something to drink?
Yeah, thanks.
Um, I think a big
tumbler of penicillin
would really hit
the spot right now.
[spanish speaking on tv]
Hey, is that a soap opera?
Yeah.
With the satellite dish we get
shows from all over the room.
This one's called "Dos
mujeres, un camino."
ROSEANNE: So that's what
happened to that guy
from "Chips."
Hey, Beavis, Butthead's home.
What are you doing here?
Oh, I just came by
to clear up some stuff.
Yeah, well, we got
nothing to talk about.
Oh, but I'm
afraid we do, Mark.
I'm afraid we do.
You see, I'm really
sick and tired
of everybody thinking
I'm some evil woman
that broke up your marriage.
OK?
I am not an evil woman.
And I believe Roy can
back me up on that.
She seems pretty cool to me.
Roy, get out of here!
You're going to have
to go and talk to Becky.
Look, I already told Mr.
Conner I can't do that.
Well, you're going to have to.
Because she's going
to have to know that
you left because of you
and not because of me.
You know, this whole
thing is your fault.
Yeah, I know.
Well, so what do
you mean by that?
You were right about me.
I screwed everything up.
Yeah.
Yeah, you did.
And you shouldn't
have taken our money
to go to school when you
weren't prepared to go
all the way through with it.
What do you want me to say?
I know the school thing
wasn't right for me.
I mean, I'm not
a real smart guy.
Well, if you say so, Mark.
I fix cars, bikes,
things like that.
I'm not like Becky.
She's the one that should
be going to school here.
Well, then so why did you go?
Because she made me.
It was all her idea.
I just want to get a job
and take care of Becky.
But I didn't even have
the brains to do that.
God, would you stop
calling yourself stupid?
I mean, you're going to
wreck it for everybody else.
I'm just trying to be honest.
Becky deserves someone
other than a total loser.
Oh, now, Mark, come on.
I mean, you were
the only one that
was smart enough to
know that you were
going to flunk out of school.
That's something, huh?
Thanks.
[sighs] OK, I guess
you're not the only one
to blame for this whole mess.
Maybe I shouldn't have pushed
Becky to push you so hard.
There.
Are you guys OK?
Because Spanish
"Jeopardy" is going
to be on in a few minutes.
Yeah, we're cool.
So does this mean you're gonna
get back together with Darlene?
God, you're looking
smarter every second, Mark.
I'm not married to Darlene.
I'm married to Becky.
Oh, well, then Darlene's
the one that lives
with your brother in Chicago?
What?
He didn't mean that!
He didn't mean Darlene.
He meant, uh, DJ.
Yeah.
David is in Chicago?
So how long have they
been living together?
What the hell am
I asking you for?
He's been up there
ever since he left you.
I can't believe that
they would do this to me.
Wait, wait.
Let's just go up to Chicago.
Why do you want to
take me to Chicago?
[sighs] I don't know.
I'm just trying to help.
Well, what makes you think I
want to sit in a car with you
for an hour and a half?
Because I've $8
bucks gas money.
Let's go.
[music playing]
So any word from
what's his face today?
No.
New subject please.
- Fine.
Fine.
We're not talking about it.
[sighs] My marriage
is falling apart, Dad.
Mark doesn't even care.
I'm sure he cares.
It's just his pride is hurting.
Well, [sighs] I
bet he's sitting
around some pig sty
surrounded by empty
beer cans and pizza boxes.
I bet he's just loving it.
No, I don't think he's
been married long enough
to really truly appreciate it.
I'm never going to
forgive Mom for this.
Becky, your mom's not
what's keeping you guys apart.
Well, Mom's the reason
that Mark went back to school
and flunked, and now he's
never going to face me again.
Well, why don't
you just go to him?
I can't.
Why, is he right?
Are you ashamed of him?
No.
It's just so weird I could fall
in love with someone that could
flunk out of trade school.
Becky, if your
husband flunked,
you got to figure out how
much that bothers you.
It bothers me.
Well, if that's
the way you feel,
maybe it's good he's gone.
No, it's not!
Mark doesn't need
someone looking down on him
for the rest of his life.
You know, that's
that diet margarine.
You got to double up on that.
After a real big fight,
did Mom ever come to you
and say that she
was completely wrong
and that it was all her fault?
When you've been married
as long as your mom and me,
it's not necessary to apologize.
Apparently.
[music playing]
DARLENE: Just get out of my way.
[door slams]
Hi, David.
I found this, uh, pen.
Is it yours?
- Uh, no.
- Oh, OK.
Well, I'll be going then.
Oh, wait a minute.
I forgot to shred the
crap out of you too.
- Mom--
- No, you're not talking.
You're not talking
for a very long time.
And you better sit down, because
this is going to take a while.
Hey, Dave-o.
Mark.
Wow.
You thought you had it all
figured out, didn't you?
You thought you were
going to live together, be
the happy little
couple, and your parents
were just too stupid to
ever find out about it.
You lied to me about Christmas.
You lied to me
about Thanksgiving.
I wanted to come
home for Thanksgiving.
I didn't keep you here.
Oh, yeah right.
Will you stop trying to
put all the blame on me?
You did what you wanted
to do like always.
Well, what do you
expect from me, David?
I am the meanest
person alive, remember?
Hey, both of you--
me!
I'm the one you're
listening to, OK?
I'm the one that you lied to
and betrayed over and over
and over.
- Well, I didn't want to.
I'm sorry if I made you lie.
Look, don't touch me!
God, Darlene, can't
I do anything right?
Hello!
There's a shredding
going on here,
and I came a very
long way to do this.
I don't want any argument
from you, Darlene.
David, you're coming
home with me right now.
Come on, let's go.
End of story.
Good.
You're doing me a favor.
No!
I'm not doing you a favor!
You're not enjoying this.
This is something very
painful that I'm doing to you.
OK.
I got it.
You have no idea
how many phone
calls, discussions,
weekends at home,
and lectures it's
going to take for you
and me to be square again.
All right, I'm sorry, Mom.
David, I threw all
your stuff outside.
So you guys get the suitcases,
and you grab a flashlight,
and we'll go see
what we can find.
So, uh, how's it going?
OK.
[music playing]
ROSEANNE: Plus all the
laundry, plus the dishes,
plus giving birth,
and every other chore
I hate to do around this house.
Where the hell have you been!
And what are you doing here?
And what are you
doing with them?
And-- that's it.
I'm out of questions.
I'll get the
rest of your stuff.
Uh, Dan, I'd like to talk
to you in the other room.
Oh, god, changing rooms.
This can't be good.
Come on.
Come on, Dan.
Well, OK.
So you know, I got this
call from David today,
and him and his mother are
not getting along at all.
So he calls me from this
bus station in Rockford.
Oh, man, we were
afraid of this.
Poor kid.
Is he OK?
Yeah, he's fine.
He just, you know, needs
to be here for a while.
Well, I got to hand it to you.
You had a feeling this
was going to happen.
[exhales] Nothing gets by me.
David.
Yes, sir?
Um, look, I'm sorry.
I really am.
I'm glad you're back.
We missed you.
I told him, and
he went insane.
Oh, god.
Nah.
I didn't tell him.
If you're going to have a
fighting chance with him,
you're going to need
me on your side.
And for that, I'm going
to need plenty of sleep.
Thank you.
Of course, you
know, uh, I have
been known to talk in my sleep.
Sometimes Dan
walks in his sleep.
But rest well, David.
Well, I guess I'll,
uh, get going, too.
Well, don't you
want to talk to Becky?
Nah, she's probably asleep.
She's probably not asleep.
(YELLING) Becky, come down here!
Look, I don't know if
I can see her right now.
I mean, how do I look?
Like every mother's nightmare.
She'll love you.
Look who dropped in.
And, um, I think he
wants to talk to you.
Don't you, Mark?
Yeah.
And I'm sure that you
would really love to listen.
And this just happens
to be a really
good listening spot right here.
This is where Dan sits and
does most of his listening.
Do you wanna?
Yeah.
- Are you coming to bed?
- Shh, shh.
What?
[gasps] Are they talking?
Yeah, and maybe if Mark
doesn't say too much,
they can patch things up.
- Damn.
- What?
I thought you wanted them
to get back together.
Oh, I do.
I just don't have any excuse
to go over to Roy's now.
[music playing]
[show playing in spanish]
[speaking spanish]
[mariachi music playing]